## Adjective endorsement Experiment

This directory holds the adjective endorsement experiment of the comparison class project. To run the experiment **locally**,  navigate to this directory and run `npm install` on the command line to get the necessary dependencies (requires node.js), and then open the `index.html` file in your favorite browser. The experiment can also be hosted on a server of your choice. The experiment was created from the magpie framework template (https://github.com/magpie-ea/magpie-departure-point).

The experiment consists of an introduction view, instructions, 48 main trials and a memory check. Make sure to choose the appropriate `deployMethod` in the file `06_main.js` (see below) to collect the results.

On the main trials, participants read a context sentence, e.g. 'You are shopping for shoes and you look at a pair of *sandals*' (the *NP* is either the high, medium or low stimulus of each item). They are asked: 'Do you think they would be:' and see two questions a two forced-choice below: e.g. '*expensive* relative to other **shoes**?' and '*cheap* relative to other **shoes**?', each to be answered with 'yes' or 'no'. The questions include both possible *adjectives* describing the respective scale and the **superordinate** of the respective item as the comparison class.

## File structure

The following files need to be adjusted if the comparison class elicitation data is updated or the experiment structure needs to be updated.

- `03_custom_views_template.js`: This file includes the botcaptcha, the memory check functions, the function eliciting the main trials view, the post test view and the introduction view. The introduction text can be changed here (`custom_intro_view`). The location check for MTurk (e.g. US IP addresses only) can be changed here, too (line 401).
- `04_trials_processed.js`: This file lists all the stimuli used in the comparison class elicitation experiment. The context sentence is adjusted to address the participant ("You see a ..."), as opposed to addressing a third person (as in the comparison class elicitation experiment: "John sees a ..."), but otherwise matches the context sentences used in the comparison class elicitation experiment. Adjectives referring to 12 different degree scales are tested (items for each scale are respectively marked by comments):  size, length, price, weight, loudness, darkness, height, temperature, speed, hardness, strength, width. In line 17 the total number of main trials (`num_trials`) is set to 48.
The trials use the modal responses produced by the participants in the comparison class elicitation experiment: the superordinates of stim_id 5 and 77 were adjusted to the modal superordinate produced by participants.
The file contains functions building the context sentence and question for each trial view; moreover, there are functions allowing to sample a balanced set of trials (i.e. using an item only once) from a desired subset of all possible trials (stim_id X np_expectation). The stimuli to be excluded can be added to the list `omitted_stimuli`.
- `05_views.js`: In this file, all the trial views are called. Here, the trial names can be changed and number of trials can be set manually. The botcaptcha speaker names can be accessed  (line 52 - 53). The `instructions` text should be adjusted here, e.g. if the total number of trials is changed.
-   `06_main.js`: Here, the experiment structure is defined. The view order can be changed in `view_seq`. The deployment method is defined here (`deployMethod`): to view the results as a table after completion use 'debug', for Prolific use 'Prolific', for an access via a link use 'directLink', for MTurk Sandbox use 'MTurkSandbox', for MTurk production use 'MTurk'. Insert you email in `contact_email`. If the data is collected on the magpie server, the `experimentID` needs to be the ID of your experiment on the server, and the link needs to access your account. The `uniqueTurkerID` is saved in this file and needs to be changed if you wish to exclude participants who e.g. already participated in your other experiments. The trials for which a progress bar should be displayed are added to `progress_bar`.

For any questions about the experiment, please contact polina.tsvilodub@gmail.com
